# QITE: Cross-Platform Quantum Platform Testing


The structure of this repo:

1.  [`qite/`](qite/) contains the source code of the QITE approach.
2.  [`notebooks/`](notebooks/) contains the Jupyter notebooks to reproduce the results in the paper.
3.  [`tests/`](tests/) contains the tests for QITE.
4.  [`program_bank/`](program_bank/) contains the programs generated by QITE.
5.  [`config/`](config/) contains the configuration files for QITE.
6.  [`reports/`](reports/) contains the GitHub issues and developer discussions for each bug reported.
7.  [`docker/`](docker/) contains the Dockerfile to build the Docker image for QITE runs that collect coverage information on the target quantum platforms.

There are two reproduction levels for the results in the paper:
1. **Reproduce the results in the paper**: The Jupyter notebooks in [`notebooks/`](notebooks/) can be used to reproduce the results in the paper.
2. **Reproduce the results from scratch**: The QITE source code in [`qite/`](qite/) can be used to reproduce the results from scratch.


## Data Availability

We share the data used in the paper:
- [QITE Data](https://figshare.com): containing the experimental data obtaining running QITE, and used to produce the plots and figures in the paper.
- [MorphQ Data](https://figshare.com): containing the experimental data obtaining running MorphQ, and used to compare the performance of QITE with MorphQ.


## Requirements

You need to have the following software installed on your machine to run QITE:
- Docker
- screen (optional but recommended to run QITE in the background while closing your terminal)

## Installation and Running QITE in Docker (Recommended)

To run QITE with coverage information collection you have to follow these steps:

1. Prepare a configuration file in the [`config/`](config/) directory. You can use the [`config/demo_qite.yaml`](config/demo_qite.yaml) file as example.

2. Run the following command to build the QITE Docker image and run the QITE tests:
    ```bash
    bash docker/coverage_toolkit/run_qite_in_docker.sh -c config/demo_qite.yaml --interactive
    ```
    Run it in `screen` to keep the process running in the background even if you close your terminal. Add `screen` before the command above.

3. The results will be stored in the folder `program_bank/demo_qite/<<run_id>>`.
Note that this can be configured in the configuration file changing the `output_dir` and `input_folder` fields of the various commands.

## Installing and Running QITE Locally

You can also install QITE locally thanks to the `pyproject.toml` file.

1. Clone the repo and install QITE by running the following command:
    ```bash
    # Clone the repository
    git clone <this-repo-url>
    cd <this-repo-name>
    pip install -e .
    ```
2. Run QITE with the following command:
    ```bash
    python entry.py --config config/demo_qite.yaml
    ```











